# Copyright (C) Eskild Hustvedt 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008
#
# $Id$
#
# This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
# (at your option) any later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=pod

=head1 NAME

magicpo.dict - Dictionary for use with MagicPO

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the file magicpo reads to find out which words to replace with what.
The syntax is as follows:

from = to

=head1 CASE SENSITIVITY

Search expressions (the text before I<=>) are case insensitive if they start with
a lowercase character, but case sensitive if they start with a uppercase character.
For instance "no = yes" will match both No and no, but "No = yes" will match only
No. The replacement string is not case sensitive.
If the replacement string begins with a lowercase character, then it
will be replaced with uppercase/lowercase as required. If it begins with an
uppercase character all instances of the string will be replaced
with the uppercased version. See SYNTAX EXAMPLES for more information.

=head1 SPECIAL CHARACTERS AND WILDCARDS

=over

=item *

"*" at the beginning of a word indicates that the word can also be part of another
word. For instance "*no = yes" will replace "no" with "yes", but also
"domino" with "domiyes". When placed at the end the phrase may be at the beginning of a word,
and when placed both at the end and beginning it indicates that the word
can either be alone, in the beginning, in the end, or in the middle of a word.

=item +

"+" at the beginning  (or end) of a word indicates that at \fIleast\fR one alphanumerical
character must follow (or preceed) the word. For instance "no+ = yes" will not match "no",
but will match "none" (IE. none becomes yesne).

=item []

Letters inside "[]" indicates that both letters inside "[]" can be at that place
in the word. For instance "[tw]here = dark" will replace both where and there
with dark (a useless replace, but it's an example).

=item ? 

A questionmark indicates that the preceeding letter \fBcan\fR be included,
but that it doesn't need to. For instance "w?here = there" will replace
both where and here with there.

=item #

A "#" in the beginning of a line indicates that the line is a comment,
magicpo will skip the line completely.

=back

=head2 CHARACTERS REQUIRING ESCAPING

Certain characters must be escaped when part of the 'from' expression.
These are: [ ] ? + *

Prefix the character with a \ to escape it

=head1 PRECEDENCE

To avoid small, unprecise expressions replacing words where a larger
more precise expression would have done a better job magicpo uses a
system of points:

	- Each letter of a word gives one point. 

	- Expressions without any "*" or "+" gets ten extra points

	- Expressions with "+" gets one point for each "+"

	- Expressions using "*" doesn't get any extra points

Example: deactivate should match before activate, it is longer and thus
gets two extra points and magicpo matches deactivate before it matches
activate.

=head1 SYNTAX EXAMPLES

=over


=item I<open> = I<free>

Will replace the word "open" or "Open" with the word "free" or "Free".

=item I<Open> = I<free>

Will replace the word "Open" (case sensitive) with the word "Free"

=item I<open> = I<Free>

Will replace the word "open" or "Open" with the word "Free" (capital F in Free)

=item I<open source> = I<free software>

Will replace the phrase "open source" with the phrase "free software".

=item I<*open> = I<free>

Will replace the word "open" with the word "free", the "*" in the beginning indicates
that "open" can also be the end of a word, so it will for instance also replace
"not-open" with "not-free".

=item I<open*> = I<free>

Will replace the word "open" with the word "free", the * at the end indicates
that "open" can also be the beginning of a word, so it will for instance also
replace "open-source" with "free-source".

=item I<*open*> = I<free>

Will replace the word "open" with the word "free", the "*" at the beginning and end
indicates that it can also be in the middle, beginning, or end of a word,
so it will for instance repleace "not-open-source" with "not-free-source".

=item I<open+> = I<free>

Will replace the phrase "open-source" with the phrase "free-source", but will not
replace the word "open" with "free". The reverse is true if the "+" is at the beginning.

=item I<[tw]here> = I<that>

Will replace both the "where" and "there" with "that".

=item I<w?here> = I<there>

Will replace both "where" and "here" with "there".

=item I<# Free software = Open Source>

The "#" in the beginning of a line indicates that it is a comment, magicpo will
skip all lines beginning with "#".

=item I<internet> = I<Internet>

This will replace all instances of internet with Internet (with uppercase I)

=item I<internet> = I<internet>

This won't do anything. Internet is replaced with Internet, internet with internet.

=back

=head1 SYNTAX CHECKING

You can check your dictionaries for errors and potential issues using the 'I<dictlint>'
tool shipped with MagicPO. You can find I<dictlint> in the I<tools/> directory of the
MagicPO tarball. Simply run it on your dictionary, like this:

	./tools/dictlint magicpo-my.dict

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) Eskild Hustvedt 2008

This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=head1 SEE ALSO

magicpo(1) - Main MagicPO manpage
